# writing automated tests

## How to write tests
- The bodies of test function performs these three actions
    1. Set up any needed data or state
    2. Run the code you want to test
    3. Assert the results are what you expect

## The Anatomy of test function
- A test in Rust is a function that's annotated with the `test` attribute.
- Attributes are metadata about pieces of Rust Code
- To change a function into a test function, we add `#[test]` on the line before `fn`
- When we run our tests with the `cargo test` command, Rust builds a test runner binary that runs the annotated functions and reports on whether each test function passes or fails.
- Whenever we make a new library project with cargo, a test module with a test function in it is automatically generated for us.
- This module gives us a template for writing our test so we don't have to look up the exact structure and syntax every time we start a new project.

## Checking Results with the `assert!` macro
- the `assert!` macro, provided by standard library, is useful when we want ensure that some condition in a test evaluated to  `true`.
- We give the `assert!` macro an argument that evaluates to a Boolean.
- if the value is `true` nothing happens and the test passes. and if the value if false, the `assert!` calls `panic!` to cause the test to fail.

## Testing Equality with the `assert_eq!` and `assert_ne!` Macros
- Standard library provides a pair of macros `assert_eq` and `assert_ne`.
- These macros compare two arguments for equality or in equality.
- They'll also print the two values if the assertion fails, which makes it easier to see why the test failed. conversely the `assert!` macro only indicates that it got a `false` value for the `==` expression, without printing the values that led to the false value.
- Under the surface, the `assert_eq!` and `assert_ne` use the operators `==` and `!=`.
- when assertion fails these macros print their argiments using debug formatting, whihc means the values being compared must implement the `PartialEq` and `Debug` traits.
- All primitive types and most of the standard libray types implements these traits.
- For stucts and enums we will define, we need implement `PartialEq` to assert equaltiyt of those types.
- We will also need to implement `Debug` to print the values when the assertion fails.

### Adding custom failure message
- We can also add custom message to be printed with the failure message as optional arguments to the `assert!`, `assert_eq!` and `assert_ne!` macros.
- Any arguments specifies after the required arguments are passed along to the `format!` macro soo we can pass format string that contains `{}` placeholders and values to go in those placeholders.

### Checking for Panics with `should_panic`
- We can write tests that ensures that value outside our expected value results in Panic
- We place the `#[should_panic]` attribute after the `#[test]` attribure and before the test function it applies to.
- Tests that use `should_panic` can be imprecise.
- A `should_panic` test would pass even if the test panic for different reason from the one we are expecting.
- To make `should_panic` test more precise, we can add an optional `expected` parameter to the `should_panic` attribute.
- The test harness will make sure that the failure message contains the provided text.

### Using  `Result<T, E>` in tests
- We can also write tests that use `Result<T, E>`
- Writing tests so they return a `Result<T, E>` enables you to use the question mark operator in the body of tests, which can be a convinient way to write test that should fail if any operation within them returns a `Err` variant.
- You can't use the `#[should_panic]` annotation on tests that use `Result<T, E>`
- To assert that an operation returns a `Err` variant, don't use the question mark operator on the `Result<T, E>` value, Instead use `assert!(value.is_err())`
